{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green25\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green78\blue192;
\red24\green25\blue27;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c20000\c40000\c80000;
\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c14118;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22180\viewh13480\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 <h1>The Pineal Gland</h1>\
<h2>\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A small endocrine gland in the brain of most vertebrates.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 </h2>\
<body>\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The pineal gland produces melatonin, a serotonin-derived hormone which modulates sleep patterns in both circadian and seasonal cycles. The shape of the gland resembles a pine cone, which gives it its name. The pineal gland is located in the epithalamus, near the center of the brain, between the two hemispheres, tucked in a groove where the two halves of the thalamus join.\cf4 \super  \cf2 \nosupersub It is one of the neuroendocrine secretory. \cf5 Circumventricular\cf2  organs in which capillaries are mostly permeable \cf4 t\cf2 o solutes in the blood.\cf2 \cb1  \cf2 \cb3 The pineal gland is present in almost all vertebrates, but is absent in protochordates in which there is a simple pineal homologue. The hagfish, considered as a primitive vertebrate, has a rudimentary structure regarded as the "pineal equivalent" in the dorsal diencephalon. In some species of amphibians and reptiles, the gland is linked to a light-sensing organ, variously called the parietal eye, the pineal eye or the third eye.\cf4 \super  \cf2 \nosupersub Reconstruction of the biological evolution pattern suggests that the pineal gland was originally a kind of atrophied photoreceptor that developed into a neuroendocrine organ.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 </body>}